# Changelog
## Versioning
From:   Firmware Version 6.0.0 (d72e20d35faefbde3891d92d09b28b31b8916141)
To:     Firmware Version 6.0.6 (44a9474b8ce9076a1412d69cc18fd07a3b16629a)
## Firmware
### Additions
- Added plug-and-play errors to the error indicator for the power LED and joystick LEDs.
  - No device connected (pnp-status bit 0) does NOT contribute to the power LED blinking.
- Added MGMSG_MOD_\[REQ/GET\]_JOYSTICK_CONTROL to query usage information for each control of a connected HID device.
- 

### Changes
- The USB serial number for the MCM301 will now auto-capitalize before saving and after reading from EEPROM.
  - This guarantees serialization on Windows where the capitalization of the serial number is ignored but is required for most libraries.
- Changed default behavior of serial number protection to disabled.
- MGMSG_MOD_IDENTIFY is prioritized over error LED for blinking behavior.
- HID usages now report the full 32-bit value from the USB device.
- Refactored MGMSG_MOD_\[REQ/GET\]_JOYSTICK_INFO to exclude usages for controls.
- HID report parser has been refactored to the HID standard.
  - PUSH and POP items are supported.
  - DELIMITER items are supported.
  - Variable-size items are better supported.
- Changed all APT command referencing the USB address (one-indexed) to the USB port (zero-indexed).
- Homing command will now be rejected when soft limits are encountered.
  - Recommendation:  Notify users of this condition.
- 

### Bugfixes
- MGMSG_MOD_IDENTIFY now relinquishes control of the LED logic after completing the identify routine.
- Guarantees null-terminator for USB serial number in firmware.
- Changing the encoder position (i.e. zeroing) will now keep the soft limits in the same physical location.
- Control commands stopping homing will disable the index tracking logic of the CPLD.
  - This enabled the default counting behavior for quadrature encoders.

## GUI
### Additions
- Added global identify button to blink the power LED.
- Added identify button for each slot.
### Changes
- Supported firmware changes.

## Configurations
### Changes
- XML and one-wire configurations for PLS-X, PLS-Y, and MPM250 now have a min-max travel range.
  - Min travel range begins at 0 (homing limit).
  - Max travel range extends to non-homing limit.
  - The actual travel range will vary from stage-to-stage and from movement-to-movement.